scripts/build_tools/README.md, before:

## Table of contents
- [Utilizing the build script build.sh](#utilizing-the-build-script-build.sh)
- [What does the script do? Script steps...](#what-does-the-script-do-script-steps)
- [create dfu image python script description](#create-dfu-image-python-script-description)
- [extract public key python script description](#extract-public-key-python-script-description)

# Utilizing the build script: build.sh
The build.sh script is a simple bash script that is used to build the desired application.
In order to build the project called: <project_name> you need to add the name of the project as input argument.
For example, in order to build the bootloader project:

```bash
.\build.sh bootloader
```

The repository architecture allows to add more projects in a modular way. Given that someone follows the same pattern,
while adding a new project in this repository, as the <repo_root>/projects/app and <repo_root>/projects/bootloader,
they should be able to utilize the same script for building the new project.

It is also important, for the build_info.yaml to be properly set-up to provide the build.sh script with the correct information to facilitate the needs of each project.
For example, the **app** project should also create a firmware update image, after build. The firmware update image needs some information like:
- version (major.minor.patch)
- vendor private key (for signing)

The **bootloader** project on the other side, does not need a dfu (device firmware update) image, therefore the **dfu_image** option is disable for that. On the other hand, the **bootloader** project needs a headerfile that contains the public key (based on the private-public key pair). That is why, in the **build_info.yaml** the option **create_public_key** is enabled for this project.

Therefore, the two options supported right now, for further project binary processing after build, are:
- Create firmware update image.
- Create public key headerfile.

To achieve those extra features, the following scripts are utilized by the build.sh script automatically:
- <repo_root>/scripts/build_tools/create_dfu_image.py
- <repo_root>/scripts/build_tools/extract_public_key.py

**build: all**

The build.sh script supports a build.sh all functionality. When the command all is issued, the build script builds every project found under build_info.yaml, that the build_all: true applies. The **build_all** option provided in the **build_info.yaml** adds the relevant project to the build all group.

```bash
.\build.sh all
```

# What does the script do? Script steps...
The build.sh script basically does the following:
1) Given the project name as input, it locates the relevant CMakeLists.txt file, in our repository.
2) A build folder is created under <repo_root>/projects/<project_name>/ (if already existis, it is being removed first).
3) The command:
```bash
cmake -G "Ninja" ..
```
is being executed.
4) The command:
```bash
ninja
```
is triggered to produce the final binaries.
5) Goes through extra steps (other than building) as described earlier (utilizing the build_info.yaml information)

NOTE: In order to utilize this script, you need to **install yq package** on your computer, this module is being used by the build.sh script to parse the yaml file config.
To install in Windows:

```bash
choco install yq
```

# create dfu image python script description
This script is being used to post process a firmware binary file, to make it compatible with the bootloader firmware update requirements.
More information for that, can be found inside the python script.
To utilize it for a specific binary, run the following command:

```bash
python create_dfu_image.py </path/to/bin> <path/to/linker_script> <version_major> <version_minor> <patch>
```

After the execution of this script, a new binary will be created that will be ready to be flashed to the board, and be compatible with out bootloader.
Also, a yaml file will be produced that will contain information related to the final binary. (e.g. the crc, sha256 hash, version of the binary).

# extract public key python script description
This script is being used pre-process a project firmware headerfile and rewrite it in order to add the public key information, in C-array format. The final result of that header file will be:
```bash
/**
 * @file ecdsa_pub_key.h
 * @brief ECDSA public key in C array format
 * @version 0.1
 * @date 2024-06-09
 *
 * @copyright Copyright (c) 2024
 *
 */
#ifndef ECDSA_PUB_KEY_H
#define ECDSA_PUB_KEY_H

// --- includes --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
#include <stdint.h>

// --- constants -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
const uint8_t ecdsa_public_key[] = { <public_key info> };

#endif // ECDSA_PUB_KEY_H

```
Usage:
```bash
python extract_public_key.py <public_key.pem> <ecdsa_pub_key.h>
```

Commit message:

Improve documentation of the repository
This commit is mostly about improving the documentation of the
repository. Also the create_dfu_image.py is modified to export the
modified binary on the current working directory, by default, to make it
easier for another user to convert his app bin to the bootloader
standards.

Signed-off-by: George Pappas <pappasgeorge12@gmail.com>

scripts/build_tools/README.md, after:

## Table of contents
- [Utilizing the build script build.sh](#utilizing-the-build-script-build.sh)
- [What does the script do? Script steps...](#what-does-the-script-do-script-steps)
- [create dfu image python script description](#create-dfu-image-python-script-description)
- [extract public key python script description](#extract-public-key-python-script-description)

# Utilizing the build script: build.sh
The build.sh script is a simple bash script that is used to build the desired application.
In order to build the project called: <project_name> you need to add the name of the project as input argument.
For example, in order to build the bootloader project:

```bash
.\build.sh bootloader
```

The repository architecture allows to add more projects in a modular way. Given that someone follows the same pattern,
while adding a new project in this repository, as the <repo_root>/projects/app and <repo_root>/projects/bootloader,
they should be able to utilize the same script for building the new project.

It is also important, for the build_info.yaml to be properly set-up to provide the build.sh script with the correct information to facilitate the needs of each project.
For example, the **app** project should also create a firmware update image, after build. The firmware update image needs some information like:
- version (major.minor.patch)
- vendor private key (for signing)

The **bootloader** project on the other side, does not need a dfu (device firmware update) image, therefore the **dfu_image** option is disable for that. On the other hand, the **bootloader** project needs a headerfile that contains the public key (based on the private-public key pair). That is why, in the **build_info.yaml** the option **create_public_key** is enabled for this project.

Therefore, the two options supported right now, for further project binary processing after build, are:
- Create firmware update image.
- Create public key headerfile.

To achieve those extra features, the following scripts are utilized by the build.sh script automatically:
- <repo_root>/scripts/build_tools/create_dfu_image.py
- <repo_root>/scripts/build_tools/extract_public_key.py

**build: all**

The build.sh script supports a build.sh all functionality. When the command all is issued, the build script builds every project found under build_info.yaml, that the build_all: true applies. The **build_all** option provided in the **build_info.yaml** adds the relevant project to the build all group.

```bash
.\build.sh all
```

# What does the script do? Script steps...
The build.sh script basically does the following:
1) Given the project name as input, it locates the relevant CMakeLists.txt file, in our repository.
2) A build folder is created under <repo_root>/projects/<project_name>/ (if already existis, it is being removed first).
3) The command:
```bash
cmake -G "Ninja" ..
```
is being executed.
4) The command:
```bash
ninja
```
is triggered to produce the final binaries.
5) Goes through extra steps (other than building) as described earlier (utilizing the build_info.yaml information)

NOTE: In order to utilize this script, you need to **install yq package** on your computer, this module is being used by the build.sh script to parse the yaml file config.
To install in Windows:

```bash
choco install yq
```

# create dfu image python script description
This script is being used to post process a firmware binary file, to make it compatible with the bootloader firmware update requirements.
More information for that, can be found inside the python script.
To utilize it for a specific binary, run the following command:

```bash
python create_dfu_image.py </path/to/bin> <path/to/linker_script> <version_major> <version_minor> <patch> <path/to/private_key>
```

After the execution of this script, a new binary will be created that will be ready to be flashed to the board, and be compatible with out bootloader.
Also, a yaml file will be produced that will contain information related to the final binary. (e.g. the crc, sha256 hash, version of the binary).

The reason that this script needs the linker script of the bootloader is to find the following information:
- Size of the application (both primary and secondary - which must be the same)
- Size of the footer, to add the relevant information to the end of the binary. (Also location of the footer in flash)
e.g. __flash_app_start__, __flash_app_end__, __header_app_crc_start__, __header_app_fw_version_start__, __header_app_hash_start__.

Also the private key is used to sign the application.

Note: This tool can be used on any application binary.
E.g. Let's say you have an application (binary) of size 120kB.
You configure the bootloader of this repository, to support an application binary of up to 230kB.
You can easily use this script to adapt your binary based on the bootloader standards and make it compatible with it.
Note: Don't forget to update the private-public key pair under **projects**. This is important to build your bootloader based on that pair and use the private key to sign your application. You need to create key pair based on ECDSA (chatgpt is your friend there :) )

# extract public key python script description
This script is being used pre-process a project firmware headerfile and rewrite it in order to add the public key information, in C-array format. The final result of that header file will be:
```bash
/**
 * @file ecdsa_pub_key.h
 * @brief ECDSA public key in C array format
 * @version 0.1
 * @date 2024-06-09
 *
 * @copyright Copyright (c) 2024
 *
 */
#ifndef ECDSA_PUB_KEY_H
#define ECDSA_PUB_KEY_H

// --- includes --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
#include <stdint.h>

// --- constants -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
const uint8_t ecdsa_public_key[] = { <public_key info> };

#endif // ECDSA_PUB_KEY_H

```
Usage:
```bash
python extract_public_key.py <public_key.pem> <ecdsa_pub_key.h>
```

Currently this is automatically being used by the build.sh script while building the bootloader.
